Added blog post about StrimziCon 2025 announcement (#470)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2025-01-29-strimzicon2025-announcement.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome StrimziCon 2025!"
date: 2025-01-29
author: paolo_patierno
---

> We are very pleased to announce the new edition of the StrimziCon, scheduled later this year!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are very pleased to announce the return of StrimziCon, scheduled later this year!
```

> After the big success of the [first edition last year](https://strimzi.io/blog/2024/06/06/strimzicon2024-roundup/), the Strimzi community decided to have a new one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the huge success of [StrimziCon 2024](https://strimzi.io/blog/2024/06/06/strimzicon2024-roundup/), the Strimzi community decided to repeat the event for 2025.
```

> As last year, this is going to be focused on our beloved Strimzi and Apache Kafka projects and it will be "virtual".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like last year, this is going to be focused on our beloved Strimzi and Apache Kafka projects and it will be "virtual".
```

The conference will take place on <b>Wednesday, June 4th</b> (afternoon CEST), with one track covering the following themes:

* Features, How Strimzi Works (features)
* Operations, Using Strimzi with other projects (operations)

The call for <b>speakers</b> is now open, and we're eagerly awaiting your proposals to discuss:

* <b>Core Strimzi</b>: Deep dive into a specific component or feature.
* <b>Case Studies</b>: Provide an overview of a use case or review of a real life Strimzi deployment, highlighting difficulties, lessons learned, and key takeaways.
* <b>Integrations</b>: Explore how Strimzi integrates with other CNCF projects, such as OpenTelemetry, KEDA and more.
* <b>Operations</b>: Share insights into what it takes to run Strimzi and maintain clusters in production.

The submission deadline is March 16th.

### From the community to the community

We encourage any community members to submit a talk: from a Strimzi deep dive, to how you operate and use it in production, through integrations with other projects.
From the community to the community, this is the best way to share.

> Paolo Patierno and Kate Stanley, as maintainer and contributor in the Strimzi community, have been organizing the conference together with the CNCF team, and will be your host during the event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paolo Patierno and Kate Stanley, as maintainers and contributors in the Strimzi community, have been organizing the conference together with the CNCF team, and will be your host during the event.
```

* [Dale Lane](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dalelane/) (Chief Architect @IBM)
* [Daniel Mulder](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-mulder-81923981/) (Senior Cloud DevOps Engineer @Axual)
* [Gantigmaa Selenge](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gselenge/) (Senior Software Engineer @Red Hat)
* [Maros Orsak](https://www.linkedin.com/in/majkl-orsak/) (Senior Software Quality Engineer @Red Hat)
* [Steffen Wirenfeldt Karlsson](https://www.linkedin.com/in/steffenwk/) (Lead Software Engineer @Maersk)

The committee members will leverage their experience and knowledge on the project as users and contributors in order to select the best proposals and make an awesome agenda.

### Join us, propose your session or register to attend!

You can find more details on the official [page](https://community.cncf.io/events/details/cncf-virtual-project-events-hosted-by-cncf-presents-strimzicon-2025-virtual/) as part of the CNCF events.

Don't forget to submit your proposal [here](https://sessionize.com/strimzicon-2025/).

Even if you're not considering presenting, we hope you will still join us as an attendee.

> It's virtual, it's free, it's going to be epic again, all reasons to be together with the Strimzi community at the StrimziCon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's virtual, it's free, and it's going to be epic again!
Join the Strimzi community at StrimziCon!
```

date: 2025-01-29
author: paolo_patierno
---

We are very pleased to announce the return of StrimziCon, scheduled later this year!
After the huge success of [StrimziCon 2024](https://strimzi.io/blog/2024/06/06/strimzicon2024-roundup/), the Strimzi community decided to repeat the event for 2025.
Like last year, this is going to be focused on our beloved Strimzi and Apache Kafka projects and it will be "virtual".
It is organized and driven by the project maintainers in collaboration with the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/).

<!--more-->

![StrimziCon 2025 Banner](/assets/images/posts/2025-01-29-strimzicon2025-banner.png)

### Why attend StrimziCon?

StrimziCon is an event for developers, DevOps engineers, and solution architects who want to learn about Strimzi and event streaming.
This event will bring together the Strimzi community, and you will learn from experts and users about use cases, best practices, and their experience using Strimzi in their organizations.
If you are working with cloud-native technologies, and you are looking for how to deal with data in motion in a cloud-based environment, don’t miss the opportunity.

> The conference will take place on <b>Wednesday, June 4th</b> (afternoon CEST), with one track covering the following themes:
> 
> * Features, How Strimzi Works (features)
> * Operations, Using Strimzi with other projects (operations)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The conference will take place on <b>Wednesday, June 4th</b> (afternoon CEST).
```

I think we should remove the part saying "with one track covering...". I don't think we need to advertise that it's a single track and themes wise the topics should be covered in the list below where we talk about the call for papers.

* <b>Core Strimzi</b>: Deep dive into a specific component or feature.
* <b>Case Studies</b>: Provide an overview of a use case or review of a real life Strimzi deployment, highlighting difficulties, lessons learned, and key takeaways.
* <b>Integrations</b>: Explore how Strimzi integrates with other CNCF projects, such as OpenTelemetry, KEDA and more.
* <b>Operations</b>: Share insights into what it takes to run Strimzi and maintain clusters in production.

The submission deadline is March 16th.

### From the community to the community

We encourage any community members to submit a talk: from a Strimzi deep dive, to how you operate and use it in production, through integrations with other projects.
From the community to the community, this is the best way to share.

Paolo Patierno and Kate Stanley, as maintainers and contributors in the Strimzi community, have been organizing the conference together with the CNCF team, and will be your host during the event.

All the submitted sessions will be evaluated by the StrimziCon program committee made up of people from different companies which already use Strimzi in production as adopters.

> We'll have representatives from Apple, Axual, Decathlon, IBM, LittleHorse Enterprises, Maersk, Red Hat, and SBB:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We'll have representatives from Apple, Axual, IBM, LittleHorse Enterprises, Maersk, and Red Hat:
```
